doc: Add release notes for 2.6 release (#14298)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-2.6.0.rst

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script`:

  * Separated functions that are specific to handling the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file format.
    The ZIP format is used for update images in the nRF Connect SDK.
    The change simplifies integrating new update image file formats.

* Added the :file:`cert_tool.py` script.
  This is a script to generate EC private keys, create CSRs, create root CA and subordinate CA certificates and sign CSRs.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``11ecbf639d826c084973beed709a63d51d9b684e``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

> 

Author: @nvlsianpu could you check if there is anything to be added here?

Reviewer: - Added CONFIG_XIP_SPLIT_IMAGE optionn which enables build systemsupport for relopcate part of the application to external memory using hardware QSPI XIP feature and MCUboot 3rd image on nRF5340 SoC.
- Added mcuboot's procedure which performs clean-up off content of all the secondary slots which contains valid header but couldn't be assigned to any of supported primary images. This behaviour is desired when configuration allows to use one secondary slot for collecting image for multiple primary slots. Ref.: config CONFIG_MCUBOOT_CLEANUP_UNUSABLE_SECONDARY, NCSIDB-1151

Author: Added

     - `Changelog <LwM2M carrier library changelog for v2.6.0_>`_

Known issues
************

Known issues are only tracked for the latest official release.
See `known issues for nRF Connect SDK v2.6.0`_ for the list of issues valid for the latest release.

.. _ncs_release_notes_260_changelog:

Changelog
*********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

IDE and tool support
====================

* Updated the supported operating system table on the :ref:`requirements` page.

Working with nRF91 Series
=========================

* Added:

  * New partition layout configuration options for Thingy:91.
    See :ref:`thingy91_partition_layout` for more details.
  * :ref:`ug_nrf9161` user guide.
  * A section on :ref:`tfm_enable_share_uart` in :ref:`ug_nrf9160`.

* Updated:

  * The :ref:`ug_nrf9160_gs` and :ref:`ug_thingy91_gsg` pages so that instructions in the :ref:`nrf9160_gs_connecting_dk_to_cloud` and :ref:`thingy91_connect_to_cloud` sections, respectively, match the updated nRF Cloud workflow.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf9160_gs` by replacing the Updating the DK firmware section with a new :ref:`nrf9160_gs_installing_software` section.

>     This new section includes steps for using Quick Start, a new application in `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ that streamlines the getting started process with the nRF91 Series DKs.

Author: discussed offline

* Updated:

  * The :ref:`nrf7002dk_nrf5340` page with a link to the `Wi-Fi Fundamentals course`_ in the `Nordic Developer Academy`_.
  * The Getting started with nRF70 Series user guide is split into three user guides, :ref:`ug_nrf7002_gs`, :ref:`ug_nrf7002ek_gs` and :ref:`ug_nrf7002eb_gs`.
  * The Operating with a resource constrained host user guide by renaming it to :ref:`nRF70_nRF5340_constrained_host`.
    Additionally, the information about stack configuration and performance is placed into its own separate page, :ref:`ug_wifi_stack_configuration`, under :ref:`ug_wifi`.

Working with nRF53 Series
=========================

* Added the :ref:`qspi_xip` user guide under :ref:`ug_nrf53`.

Working with RF front-end modules
=================================

* Added a clarification that the Simple GPIO implementation is intended for multiple front-end modules (not just one specific device) in the :ref:`ug_radio_fem_sw_support_mpsl` section of the :ref:`ug_radio_fem` guide.

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Amazon Sidewalk
---------------

* Added:

  * An application behavior that selects the Bluetooth LE only library when the ``SIDEWALK_SUBGHZ_SUPPORT`` option is disabled.
    The library has a limited set of Sidewalk features and does not include multi-link.
  * The sensor monitoring support for Thingy:53 with Sidewalk over Bluetooth LE.
  * Amazon Sidewalk libraries v.1.16.2, that include the following:
  
     * Autonomous link switching (multi-link) – Enables applications to configure a policy for optimizing radio links usage based on the application profiles. 
       A device with only one or all link types (Bluetooth LE, LoRa, FSK radio) can benefit from this feature.
     * On-device certificate generation - Enhances the security of IoT products at manufacturing through the on-device key generation and creation of the manufacturing page. 
     * Downlink file transfer over Bluetooth LE (experimental) - The Sidewalk Bulk Data Transfer mode and Integration of AWS IoT FUOTA service allow sending files (up to 1 MB) to fleet of IoT devices from the AWS IoT FUOTA task.
       The current implementation covers basic scenario that shows the transferred data in the logs with minimal callback implementation. 
       There is no Device Firmware Update (DFU) integration.
       
  * `Amazon Sidewalk Sample IoT App`_ to the codebase (:file:`sidewalk/tools`) as an original tool for provisioning.

* Updated:

  * The entire samples model to include a common, configurable codebase.

```

Author: Added

* Updated:

  * :ref:`bt_mesh_dm_srv_readme` and :ref:`bt_mesh_dm_cli_readme` model IDs and opcodes to avoid conflict with Simple OnOff Server and Client models.
  * :ref:`bt_mesh_sensors_readme` to use an updated API with sensor values represented by :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead of :c:struct:`sensor_value`.
    This makes it possible to accurately represent all encodable sensor values.
    The old APIs based on the :c:struct:`sensor_value` type are deprecated, but are still available for backward compatibility and can be enabled for use by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` Kconfig option.
  * The :ref:`bt_mesh_ug_reserved_ids` page with model ID and opcodes for the new :ref:`bt_mesh_le_pair_resp_readme` model.
  * :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_readme` APIs to match the new sensor APIs.
  * The :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_configuring` with the following information:

    * The recommendation on how to configure persistent storage to increase performance.
    * The required configuration for the network core.

>   * The :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_dfu_eval_md` section with details about the automated metadata generation.

Reviewer 3: PR https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/14406 was merged in with a changelog entry to release-notes-changelog.rst. It should be added in this bullet list
```suggestion
  * The :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_dfu_eval_md` section with details about the automated metadata generation.
  * The Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_NLC_PERF` to no longer select the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_MODEL_EXTENSIONS` option.

```

Author: Added

* Fixed an issue when the Time Server model rewrites TTL to zero forever during the unsolicited Time Status publication.

Matter
------

* For devices that use Matter over Thread, the default cryptography backend is now Arm PSA Crypto API instead of Mbed TLS, which was used in earlier versions.
  You can still build all examples with deprecated Mbed TLS support by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA` Kconfig option to ``n``, but you must build the Thread libraries from sources.
  To :ref:`inherit Thread certification <ug_matter_device_certification_reqs_dependent>` from Nordic Semiconductor, you must use the PSA Crypto API backend.

* Added:

>   * A Kconfig option for disabling or enabling :ref:`ug_matter_configuring_read_client`.

Author: @wiba-nordic/ @LuDuda?

>   * A Kconfig option for disabling or enabling :ref:`ug_matter_configuring_read_client`.

Reviewer 4: Should be :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ENABLE_READ_CLIENT`.

    * The ``lte_net_if`` module now handles the :c:enumerator:`~pdn_event.PDN_EVENT_NETWORK_DETACH` PDN event.
      Not handling this caused permanent connection loss and error message (``ipv4_addr_add, error: -19``) in some situations when reconnecting.
    * Threads sleeping in the :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_timedwait` function with context ``0`` are now woken by all calls to the :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_event_notify` function.

  * Removed:

    * The deprecated Kconfig option ``CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_SYS_INIT``.
    * The deprecated Kconfig option ``CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_IPC_IRQ_PRIO_OVERRIDE``.
    * The ``NRF_MODEM_LIB_NET_IF_DOWN`` flag support in the ``lte_net_if`` network interface driver.

* :ref:`lib_modem_slm`:

    * Updated the library by making the used GPIO to be configurable using devicetree.

* :ref:`pdn_readme` library:

   * Added the :c:func:`pdn_dynamic_params_get` function to retrieve dynamic parameters of an active PDN connection.
   * Updated the library to add PDP auto configuration to the :c:enumerator:`LTE_LC_FUNC_MODE_POWER_OFF` event.
   * Fixed:

     * A potential issue where the library tries to free the PDN context twice, causing the application to crash.

>      * A potential crash when an AT notification arrives during :c:func:`pdn_ctx_create`. The callback was only initialized after adding it to the list.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
     * A potential crash when an AT notification arrives during :c:func:`pdn_ctx_create`. 
       The callback was only initialized after adding it to the list.
```

  * Removed the dependency on the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library.

* :ref:`lib_at_host` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AT_HOST_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option.
    This option allows the stack size of the AT host workqueue thread to be adjusted.

* :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` library:

  * Fixed a potential race condition, where two threads might corrupt a shared response buffer.

* :ref:`lib_modem_attest_token` library:

  * Updated to adapt to API changes in zcbor 0.8.x.

Libraries for networking
------------------------

* :ref:`lib_aws_iot` library:

  * Added library tests.
  * Updated the library to use the :ref:`lib_mqtt_helper` library.
    This simplifies the handling of the MQTT stack.

* :ref:`lib_azure_iot_hub` library:

  * Added support for the newly added :file:`cert_tool.py` Python script.
    This is a script to generate EC private keys, create Certificate Signing Request (CSR), create root Certificate Authority (CA), subordinate CA certificates, and sign CSRs.

>   * Updated the documentation on IoT Hub configuration and credentials storage has been improved.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * Updated the documentation on IoT Hub configuration and credentials storage.
```

    It now contains more details on how to use the Azure CLI to set up an IoT Hub.
    The documentation on credential provisioning has also been updated, both for nRF91 Series devices and nRF70 Series devices.

* :ref:`lib_download_client` library:

  * Added the ``family`` parameter to the :c:struct:`download_client_cfg` structure.

>     This is used to optimize the download sequence when the device only support IPv4 or IPv6.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    This is used to optimize the download sequence when the device only supports IPv4 or IPv6.
```

    * The library requests a periodic TAU (RPTAU) to match the client lifetime.

* :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library:

  * Updated the Ground Fix object to copy received coordinates to the LwM2M Location object.

* :ref:`lib_fota_download` library:

  * Added:

    * The functions :c:func:`fota_download` and :c:func:`fota_download_any` that can accept a security tag list and security tag count as arguments instead of a single security tag.
    * :c:enumerator:`FOTA_DOWNLOAD_ERROR_CAUSE_CONNECT_FAILED` as a potential error cause in  :c:enumerator:`FOTA_DOWNLOAD_EVT_ERROR` events.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_rest` library:

  * Updated the :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_rest_location_request` structure to accept a pointer to a :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_location_config` structure in place of the single ``disable_response`` flag.

* :ref:`lib_wifi_credentials` library:

  * Updated PSA backend to use PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) to store Wi-Fi credentials instead of Protected Storage.
    The change is because PSA ITS is better suited to store secrets.

>     When switching storage the credentials need to be migrated manually, or the existing credentials are lost.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    When switching the storage, the credentials need to be migrated manually, or the existing credentials are lost.
```

>     Removed ``CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_UID_OFFSET``.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    Removed the ``CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_UID_OFFSET`` Kconfig option.
```

    Use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_OFFSET` Kconfig option instead.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Fixed an issue with handling zero size data (when receiving empty I-blocks from poller) in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.

Security libraries
------------------

* Added the :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library.

* :ref:`nrf_security` library:

  * Updated:

    * The library no longer enables RSA keys by default, which reduces the code size by 30 kB for those that are not using RSA keys.
      The RSA key size must be explicitly enabled to avoid breaking the configuration when using the RSA keys, for example by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_2048` if 2048-bit RSA keys are required.

>     * The PSA config is now validated by the file :file:`ncs/nrf/ext/oberon/psa/core/library/check_crypto_config.h`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    * The PSA config is now validated by the :file:`ncs/nrf/ext/oberon/psa/core/library/check_crypto_config.h` file .
```

>       Users with invalid configurations must update their PSA configuration according to the error messages that the file :file:`check_crypto_config.h` provides.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
      Users with invalid configurations must update their PSA configuration according to the error messages that the :file:`check_crypto_config.h` file provides.
```

Other libraries
---------------

* :ref:`lib_adp536x` library:

  * Fixed the issue where the adp536x driver was included in the immutable bootloader on Thingy:91 when :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT` was enabled.

* :ref:`lib_date_time` library:

  * Added the :c:func:`date_time_now_local` function to the API.

Common Application Framework (CAF)
----------------------------------

* :ref:`caf_ble_state`:

>   * Added :c:member:`ble_peer_event.reason` to inform about reason code related to state of the Bluetooth LE peer.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * Added :c:member:`ble_peer_event.reason` to inform about the reason code related to state of the Bluetooth LE peer.
```

>     The field is used to propagate information about error code related to a connection establishment failure and disconnection reason.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    The field is used to propagate information about an error code related to a connection establishment failure and disconnection reason.
```

  * Updated the dependencies of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_USE_LLPM` Kconfig option.

>     The option can be enabled even when the Bluetooth controller is not enabled as part of the application that uses :ref:`caf_ble_state`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    You can enable the option even when the Bluetooth controller is not enabled as part of the application that uses :ref:`caf_ble_state`.
```

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* Added the :file:`cert_tool.py` script.
  This is a script to generate EC private keys, create CSRs, create root CA and subordinate CA certificates and sign CSRs.

* :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script`:

  * Separated functions that are specific to handling the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file format.
    The ZIP format is used for update images in the |NCS|.
    The change simplifies integrating new update image file formats.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``11ecbf639d826c084973beed709a63d51d9b684e``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

|no_changes_yet_note|

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each nRF Connect SDK release.

> The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``23cf38934c0f68861e403b22bc3dd0ce6efbfa39``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

Reviewer 6: SHA correct

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

>    git log --oneline 23cf38934c ^a768a05e62

Reviewer 6: SHA correct

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

>    git log --oneline manifest-rev ^23cf38934c

Reviewer 6: SHA correct

|no_changes_yet_note|

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each nRF Connect SDK release.

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``23cf38934c0f68861e403b22bc3dd0ce6efbfa39``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline 23cf38934c ^a768a05e62

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^23cf38934c

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``23cf38934c`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

> Additions specific to |NCS|

Author: @carlescufi , could you check the SHA here and see if there is content to be added under this section?

Reviewer 6: Nothing to add here

  * nRF5340 SoC targets that do not include :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>` now use Hardware Unique Key (HUK, see the :ref:`lib_hw_unique_key` library) for PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS).

See `Thread samples`_ for the list of changes in the Thread samples.

Zigbee
------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.3.0 and platform v5.1.4 (``v3.11.3.0+5.1.4``).
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.1.2.

* Removed the precompiled development ZBOSS libraries.

Gazell
------

* Added:

  * Kconfig options :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_GAZELL_PAIRING_USER_CONFIG_ENABLE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_GAZELL_PAIRING_USER_CONFIG_FILE`.
    The options allow to use user-specific file as Gazell pairing configuration header to override the pairing configuration.
* Fixed the clear system address and host ID in RAM when :c:func:`gzp_erase_pairing_data` is called.

Wi-Fi
-----

* Added the :kconfig:option:`NRF_WIFI_FW_PATCH_DFU` Kconfig option that enables DFU support for nRF70 Series devices.

>   This allows firmware patches for signed images to be sent to multi-image targets over Wi-Fi.

Author: Added.

    All mentioned features are still available in the master variant.

Wi-Fi samples
-------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`wifi_throughput_sample` sample that demonstrates how to measure the network throughput of a Nordic Semiconductor Wi-Fi enabled platform under the different Wi-Fi stack configuration profiles.
  * The :ref:`wifi_softap_sample` sample that demonstrates how to start a nRF70 Series device in :term:`Software-enabled Access Point (SoftAP or SAP)` mode.
  * The :ref:`wifi_raw_tx_packet_sample` sample that demonstrates how to transmit raw TX packets.
  * The :ref:`wifi_monitor_sample` sample that demonstrates how to start a nRF70 Series device in :term:`Monitor` mode.

* :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample:

  * Updated the sample by adding the following extensions to the Wi-Fi command line:

    * ``raw_tx`` extension.
      It adds the subcommands to configure and sends raw TX packets.

    * ``promiscuous_set`` extension.
      It adds the subcommand to configure Promiscuous mode.

* :ref:`wifi_ble_coex_sample` sample:

  * Updated the sample folder name from ``sr_coex`` to ``ble_coex`` to accurately represent the functionality of the sample.

> 

Reviewer 7: PR https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/14410 is merged in with a changelog entry to release-notes-changelog.rst file. It should be added here as:
```suggestion

* :ref:`wifi_radio_test` sample:

  * Updated:

    * Added support for runtime configuration of antenna gain and edge backoff parameters.
    * Antenna gain and edge backoff values are not applied if regulatory is bypassed.
```

Thingy:53: Matter weather station
---------------------------------

* Updated by changing the deployment of configuration files to align with other Matter applications.
* Removed instantiation of ``OTATestEventTriggerDelegate``, which was usable only for Matter Test Event purposes.

Matter bridge
-------------

* Added:

  * Support for groupcast communication to the On/Off Light device implementation.
  * Support for controlling the OnOff Light simulated data provider by using shell commands.
  * Support for Matter Generic Switch bridged device type.
  * Support for On/Off Light Switch bridged device type.
  * Support for bindings to the On/Off Light Switch device implementation.
  * Guide about extending the application by adding support for a new Matter device type, a new Bluetooth LE service or a new protocol.
  * Support for Bluetooth LE Security Manager Protocol that allows to establish secure session with bridged Bluetooth LE devices.
  * Callback to indicate the current state of Bluetooth LE Connectivity Manager.
    The current state is indicated by **LED 2**.
  * Support for the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK attached.

>   * Support for Wi-Fi firmware upgrades on external memory, for the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK attached.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * Support for Wi-Fi firmware patch upgrades on external memory, for the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK attached.
```

  * Created a CMake file in the Matter common directory to centralize the sourcing of all common software module source code.

* Disabled the following features:

  * :ref:`ug_matter_configuring_read_client` in most Matter samples using the new :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ENABLE_READ_CLIENT` Kconfig option.
  * WPA supplicant advanced features in all Matter samples using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WPA_SUPP_ADVANCED_FEATURES` Kconfig option.
    This saves roughly 25 KB of flash memory for firmware images with Wi-Fi support.

* Added ``matter_shell`` shell commands set to gather the current information about the NVS settings backend such as current usage, free space, and peak usage value.
  You can enable them by setting the :kconfig:option:`NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_SETTINGS_SHELL` Kconfig option to ``y``.

* :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample:

  * Added support for `AWS IoT Core`_.

* :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample:

  * Added support for DFU over Bluetooth LE SMP.
    The functionality is disabled by default.
    To enable it, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DFU_OVER_BT_SMP` Kconfig option to ``y``.

* :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample:

>   * Added support for Wi-Fi firmware upgrade on external memory, only for the combination of the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * Added support for Wi-Fi firmware patch upgrade on external memory, only for the combination of the nRF5340 DK with the nRF7002 EK.
```

* :ref:`lib_mqtt_helper` library:

  * Added support for using a password when connecting to a broker.

* :ref:`lib_lwm2m_client_utils` library:

  * Updated:

    * The Release Assistance Indication (RAI) support to follow socket state changes from LwM2M engine and modify RAI values based on the state.
    * The library requests a periodic TAU (RPTAU) to match the client lifetime.

* :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library:

  * Updated the Ground Fix object to copy received coordinates to the LwM2M Location object.

* :ref:`lib_fota_download` library:

  * Added:

    * The functions :c:func:`fota_download` and :c:func:`fota_download_any` that can accept a security tag list and security tag count as arguments instead of a single security tag.
    * :c:enumerator:`FOTA_DOWNLOAD_ERROR_CAUSE_CONNECT_FAILED` as a potential error cause in  :c:enumerator:`FOTA_DOWNLOAD_EVT_ERROR` events.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_rest` library:

  * Updated the :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_rest_location_request` structure to accept a pointer to a :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_location_config` structure in place of the single ``disable_response`` flag.

* :ref:`lib_wifi_credentials` library:

>   * Updated PSA backend to use PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) to store Wi-Fi credentials instead of Protected Storage.
>     The change is because PSA ITS is better suited to store secrets.
>     When switching storage, the credentials need to be migrated manually, or the existing credentials are lost.
>     Removed the ``CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_UID_OFFSET`` Kconfig option.
>     Use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_OFFSET` Kconfig option instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Updated the PSA backend to use the PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) for storing of Wi-Fi credentials instead of the Protected Storage.
    This is changed because the PSA ITS is a better fit for storing assets like credentials.
    When switching storage, the credentials need to be migrated manually, or the existing credentials are lost.
  * Removed the ``CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_UID_OFFSET`` Kconfig option.
    Use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_OFFSET` Kconfig option instead.
```

Author: Fixed.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Fixed an issue with handling zero size data (when receiving empty I-blocks from poller) in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.

Security libraries
------------------

* Added the :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library.

> * :ref:`nrf_security` library:

Reviewer 3: Mbed TLS version is updated to v3.5.2.

Reviewer 3: Not sure about the placement here. I thought initially the nRF Security library could be the place. But then for the NCS 2.5.0 release notes, we had an own Mbed TLS section. Maybe this is where it is supposed to go.

Author: Added a separate section.

  * A script for extracting the Bluetooth Mesh DFU metadata automatically when building an application.
    The script is enabled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_DFU_METADATA_ON_BUILD` Kconfig option.
  * A separate command ``west build -t ble_mesh_dfu_metadata`` to print Bluetooth Mesh DFU metadata that is already generated to a terminal.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`bt_mesh_dm_srv_readme` and :ref:`bt_mesh_dm_cli_readme` model IDs and opcodes to avoid conflict with Simple OnOff Server and Client models.
  * :ref:`bt_mesh_sensors_readme` to use an updated API with sensor values represented by :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead of :c:struct:`sensor_value`.
    This makes it possible to accurately represent all encodable sensor values.
    The old APIs based on the :c:struct:`sensor_value` type are deprecated, but are still available for backward compatibility and can be enabled for use by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` Kconfig option.
  * The :ref:`bt_mesh_ug_reserved_ids` page with model ID and opcodes for the new :ref:`bt_mesh_le_pair_resp_readme` model.
  * :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_readme` APIs to match the new sensor APIs.

>   * The Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_NLC_PERF` to no longer select the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_MODEL_EXTENSIONS` option.

Author: @mia-ko, could you confirm?

   * ``CONFIG_CHIP_SED_ACTIVE_THRESHOLD`` to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ICD_ACTIVE_MODE_THRESHOLD`.

   * zcbor 0.7.0 to 0.8.1.

   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PRINTK_SYNC` Kconfig option has been disabled to avoid potential interrupts blockage in Matter applications that can violate time-sensitive components, like :ref:`nrf_802154`.

Thread
------

* Updated:

  * The default cryptography backend for Thread is now Arm PSA Crypto API instead of Mbed TLS, which was used in earlier versions.
    You can still build all examples with deprecated Mbed TLS support by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_NRF_SECURITY_CHOICE` Kconfig option to ``y``, but you must build the Thread libraries from sources.
    To :ref:`inherit Thread certification <ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications>` from Nordic Semiconductor, you must use the PSA Crypto API backend.

  * nRF5340 SoC targets that do not include :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>` now use Hardware Unique Key (HUK, see the :ref:`lib_hw_unique_key` library) for PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS).

See `Thread samples`_ for the list of changes in the Thread samples.

> Zigbee

Reviewer 9: Please update section:

```
Zigbee
------
 
* Updated:
 
  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.3.0 and platform v5.1.4 (``v3.11.3.0+5.1.4``). They contain fixes for security vulnerabilities and other bugs. For details look into: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/2.6.0/nrfxlib/zboss/CHANGELOG.html
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.1.2.
 
* Removed the precompiled development variant of ZBOSS libraries.
 
* Fixed a bus fault issue at reset when using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_RAM_POWER_DOWN_LIBRARY` in some samples configuration (KRKNWK-18572).
```

Debug samples
-------------

* :ref:`memfault_sample` sample:

  * Added support for the nRF9151 development kit.

Matter samples
--------------

* Unified common code for buttons, LEDs and events in all Matter samples:

  * Created the task executor module that is responsible for posting and dispatching tasks.
  * Moved common methods for managing buttons and LEDs that are located on the DK to the board module.
  * Divided events to application and system events.
  * Defined common LED and button constants in the dedicated board configuration files.
  * Created the Kconfig file for the Matter common directory.
  * Created a CMake file in the Matter common directory to centralize the sourcing of all common software module source code.

* Disabled the following features:

  * :ref:`ug_matter_configuring_read_client` in most Matter samples using the new :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ENABLE_READ_CLIENT` Kconfig option.
  * WPA supplicant advanced features in all Matter samples using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WPA_SUPP_ADVANCED_FEATURES` Kconfig option.
    This saves roughly 25 KB of flash memory for firmware images with Wi-Fi support.

> * Added ``matter_shell`` shell commands set to gather the current information about the NVS settings backend such as current usage, free space, and peak usage value.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Added ``matter_shell`` shell commands set to gather the current information about the NVS settings backend, such as current usage, free space, and peak usage value.
```

    By default, the device name is provided only in the pairing mode (:c:member:`bt_le_adv_prov_adv_state.pairing_mode`).
    You can disable the newly introduced Kconfig option (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV_DEVICE_NAME_PAIRING_MODE_ONLY`) to provide the device name also when the device is not in the pairing mode.

DFU libraries
-------------

* :ref:`lib_dfu_target` library:

  * Updated:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DFU_TARGET_FULL_MODEM_USE_EXT_PARTITION` Kconfig option to be automatically enabled when ``nordic,pm-ext-flash`` is chosen in the devicetree.
      See :ref:`partition_manager` for details.
    * Adapted to API changes in zcbor 0.8.x.

* :ref:`lib_fmfu_fdev` library:

  * Updated by regenerating cbor code with zcbor 0.8.1 and adapting to API changes in zcbor 0.8.x.

Debug libraries
---------------

* :ref:`mod_memfault` library:

  * Added more default LTE metrics, such as band, operator, RSRP, and kilobytes sent and received.
  * Updated the default metric names to follow the standard |NCS| variable name convention.

Modem libraries
---------------

* :ref:`lib_location` library:

  * Added:

>     * The :c:enumerator:`LOCATION_EVT_STARTED` event to indicate that a location request has been started and the :c:enumerator:`LOCATION_EVT_FALLBACK` event to indicate that a fallback from one location method to another has occurred.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    * The :c:enumerator:`LOCATION_EVT_STARTED` event to indicate that a location request has been started, and the :c:enumerator:`LOCATION_EVT_FALLBACK` event to indicate that a fallback from one location method to another has occurred.
```

* :ref:`lib_mqtt_helper` library:

  * Added support for using a password when connecting to a broker.

* :ref:`lib_lwm2m_client_utils` library:

  * Updated:

    * The Release Assistance Indication (RAI) support to follow socket state changes from LwM2M engine and modify RAI values based on the state.
    * The library requests a periodic TAU (RPTAU) to match the client lifetime.

* :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library:

  * Updated the Ground Fix object to copy received coordinates to the LwM2M Location object.

* :ref:`lib_fota_download` library:

  * Added:

    * The functions :c:func:`fota_download` and :c:func:`fota_download_any` that can accept a security tag list and security tag count as arguments instead of a single security tag.
    * :c:enumerator:`FOTA_DOWNLOAD_ERROR_CAUSE_CONNECT_FAILED` as a potential error cause in  :c:enumerator:`FOTA_DOWNLOAD_EVT_ERROR` events.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_rest` library:

  * Updated the :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_rest_location_request` structure to accept a pointer to a :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_location_config` structure in place of the single ``disable_response`` flag.

* :ref:`lib_wifi_credentials` library:

>   * Updated the PSA backend to use the PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) for storing of Wi-Fi credentials instead of the Protected Storage.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Updated the PSA backend to use the PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) for storing Wi-Fi credentials instead of the Protected Storage.
```

>     This is changed because the PSA ITS is a better fit for storing assets like credentials.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    This has changed because the PSA ITS is a better fit for storing assets like credentials.
```

    When switching storage, the credentials need to be migrated manually, or the existing credentials are lost.
  * Removed the ``CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_UID_OFFSET`` Kconfig option.
    Use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WIFI_CREDENTIALS_BACKEND_PSA_OFFSET` Kconfig option instead.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Fixed an issue with handling zero size data (when receiving empty I-blocks from poller) in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.

Security libraries
------------------

* Added the :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library.

* :ref:`nrf_security` library:

  * Updated:

    * The library no longer enables RSA keys by default, which reduces the code size by 30 kB for those that are not using RSA keys.

>       The RSA key size must be explicitly enabled to avoid breaking the configuration when using the RSA keys, for example by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_2048` if 2048-bit RSA keys are required.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      The RSA key size must be explicitly enabled to avoid breaking the configuration when using the RSA keys, for example, by setting the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_2048` if 2048-bit RSA keys are required.
```

    * The PSA config is now validated by the :file:`ncs/nrf/ext/oberon/psa/core/library/check_crypto_config.h` file.
      Users with invalid configurations must update their PSA configuration according to the error messages that the :file:`check_crypto_config.h` file provides.

Other libraries
---------------

* :ref:`lib_adp536x` library:

>   * Fixed the issue where the adp536x driver was included in the immutable bootloader on Thingy:91 when :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT` was enabled.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Fixed the issue where the adp536x driver was included in the immutable bootloader on Thingy:91 when :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT` Kconfig option was enabled.
```

zcbor
=====

zcbor has been updated from 0.7.0 to 0.8.1.
For more information see the `zcbor 0.8.0 release notes`_ and the `zcbor 0.8.1 release notes`_.

* Added:

  * Support for unordered maps.
  * Performance improvements.
  * Naming improvements for generated code.
  * Bugfixes.

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Updated:

  * The minimal TF-M build profile no longer silences TF-M logs by default.

    .. note::
       This can be a breaking change if the UART instance used by TF-M is already in use, for example by modem trace with a UART backend.

  * The TF-M version is updated to TF-M v2.0.0.

Mbed TLS
========

* Updated the Mbed TLS version to v3.5.2.

Documentation
=============

* Added:

  * :ref:`contributions_ncs` page in a new :ref:`contributions` section that also includes the development model pages, previously listed under :ref:`releases_and_maturity`.
  * :ref:`ug_lte` user guide under :ref:`protocols`.
  * Gazell and NFC sections in the :ref:`app_power_opt_recommendations` user guide.

>   * Following new user guides under :ref:`ug_wifi`:

Reviewer 7: I think it was decided to use "pages" instead of "user guides"?

* :ref:`lib_azure_iot_hub` library:

  * Added support for the newly added :file:`cert_tool.py` Python script.
    This is a script to generate EC private keys, create Certificate Signing Request (CSR), create root Certificate Authority (CA), subordinate CA certificates, and sign CSRs.
  * Updated the documentation on IoT Hub configuration and credentials storage.
    It now contains more details on how to use the Azure CLI to set up an IoT Hub.
    The documentation on credential provisioning has also been updated, both for nRF91 Series devices and nRF70 Series devices.

* :ref:`lib_download_client` library:

  * Added the ``family`` parameter to the :c:struct:`download_client_cfg` structure.
    This is used to optimize the download sequence when the device only supports IPv4 or IPv6.

  * Updated:

    * IPv6 support changed from compile time to runtime, and is enabled by default.
    * IPv6 to IPv4 fallback is done when both DNS request and TCP/TLS connect fails.
    * HTTP downloads forward data fragments to a callback only when the buffer is full.

  * Removed the ``CONFIG_DOWNLOAD_CLIENT_IPV6`` Kconfig option.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library:

  * Added:

>     * Automatic selection of proprietary PSM mode when building for the SOC_NRF9161_LACA.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    * Automatic selection of proprietary PSM mode when building for the ``SOC_NRF9161_LACA``.
```

* Wi-Fi®:

  * nRF70 Series firmware patches can now optionally reside in external NVM memory instead of on-board, releasing up to 70 KB of space for the application running on the host device (nRF5340 or nRF52840).
  * Raw Wi-Fi packet transmission.
  * New samples: :ref:`wifi_raw_tx_packet_sample` and :ref:`wifi_throughput_sample`.
  * :ref:`wifi_zephyr_samples` can be built with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) for enhanced security.

* Matter:

  * Matter 1.2, bringing support for nine new device types such as refrigerators, robotic vacuums, air quality sensors, and more.
  * The :ref:`matter_bridge_app` application that was introduced in |NCS| 2.5.0 as experimental is now supported.
  * Matter over Thread now uses PSA Certified Secure Storage API to enable secure storage of keys and certificates.

* Power Management (nPM1300):

  * New :ref:`npm1300_one_button` sample that demonstrates how to support wake-up, shutdown, and user interactions through a single button connected to the nPM1300.
  * LDO and load-switches soft start configuration to limit voltage fluctuations, and PFM mode configuration for added user flexibility.

> * Sidewalk:

Author: Changed.

  * Multi-link (autonomous link switching), which provides more flexibility and optimized control of radio links and message transfers based on application profiles.
  * On-device key generation, enhancing the security of IoT products at manufacturing.

* Cellular IoT:

  * Support for nRF9151 DK on the majority of :ref:`cellular IoT samples <cellular_samples>`.
  * The :ref:`serial_lte_modem` application can now be used to turn an nRF91 Series SiP into a standalone modem that can be used through Zephyr's cellular modem driver.

* Security:

  * Introduced the new :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library which uses Hardware Unique Key to provide an implementation of PSA Certified Secure Storage API without the use of TF-M Platform Root of Trust (PRoT).

* Other:

  * New :ref:`networking_samples`: :ref:`net_coap_client_sample` and :ref:`http_server`.

>     These samples can be built for either a cellular IoT target or Wi-Fi target.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    These samples can be built for either a cellular IoT target or a Wi-Fi target.
```

Added the following features as experimental:

* Wi-Fi:

>   * Raw Wi-Fi reception in both monitor and promiscuous modes.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Raw Wi-Fi reception in both Monitor and Promiscuous modes.
```

    See the documentation on :ref:`qspi_xip` and :ref:`smp_svr_ext_xip`.

* nRF Cloud:

  * The :ref:`nrf_cloud_multi_service` sample now includes experimental support for the following:

    * Runtime installation of TLS certificates using the TLS Credentials Shell when built for :ref:`Wi-Fi connectivity <nrf_cloud_multi_service_building_wifi_conn>` on an nRF5340 DK with an nRF7002 EK.
    * Communication using either MQTT or CoAP over Wi-Fi.
    * Better out-of-box experience by using the new nRF Cloud Security Services :ref:`auto-onboarding feature <nrf_cloud_multi_service_provisioning_service>`.
      This makes it easier to connect a new device to nRF Cloud, including installation of security credentials.
  * The :ref:`nrf_cloud_rest_device_message` sample also includes experimental support for the new nRF Cloud Security Services :ref:`auto-onboarding <remote_prov_auto_onboard>` feature.

* Other:

  * Link Time Optimization that brings flash usage improvements.
    This has been tested on Matter over Wi-Fi template sample and it reduced flash by 73 KB (931 KB to 858 KB) for debug build and 64 KB (840 KB to 776 KB) on release build.

Improved:

* Bluetooth LE Audio:

>   * The application nRF5340 Audio is now called :ref:`nrf53_audio_app` and it has been refactored, expanded and improved, using Nordic Semiconductor's :ref:`softdevice_controller` instead of the previous dedicated LE Audio Controller subsystem.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * The application nRF5340 Audio is now called :ref:`nrf53_audio_app` and it has been refactored, expanded, and improved, using Nordic Semiconductor's :ref:`softdevice_controller` instead of the previous dedicated LE Audio Controller subsystem.
```

    This application is still of experimental maturity.

* Matter:

  * Reduction of flash utilization for Matter over Thread template application:

>     * nRF52840: Reduction of 48 KB (813 KB to 765 KB) for debug build and 50 KB (719KB to 669 KB) for release build.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    * nRF52840: Reduction of 48 KB (813 KB to 765 KB) for debug build and 50 KB (719 KB to 669 KB) for release build.
```

>     * nRF5340: Reduction of 36 KB (732KB to 696 KB) for debug build and 39 KB (637 KB to 598 KB) for release build.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    * nRF5340: Reduction of 36 KB (732 KB to 696 KB) for debug build and 39 KB (637 KB to 598 KB) for release build.
```

  * The Unique ID for Rotating Device ID can now only be generated if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ROTATING_DEVICE_ID` Kconfig option is set to ``y``.

Thread
------

* Updated:

  * The default cryptography backend for Thread is now Arm PSA Crypto API instead of Mbed TLS, which was used in earlier versions.
    You can still build all examples with deprecated Mbed TLS support by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_NRF_SECURITY_CHOICE` Kconfig option to ``y``, but you must build the Thread libraries from sources.
    To :ref:`inherit Thread certification <ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications>` from Nordic Semiconductor, you must use the PSA Crypto API backend.

  * nRF5340 SoC targets that do not include :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>` now use Hardware Unique Key (HUK, see the :ref:`lib_hw_unique_key` library) for PSA Internal Trusted Storage (ITS).

See `Thread samples`_ for the list of changes in the Thread samples.

Zigbee
------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.3.0 and platform v5.1.4 (``v3.11.3.0+5.1.4``).
    They contain fixes for security vulnerabilities and other bugs.
    For details, see :ref:`zboss_changelog`.

>   * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.1.2.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.2.2.
```

Please fix this typo. Correct NCP host version is here: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/zboss/
